
    Skynet clause (The Cooper-Nowitzki Theorem) - Sets out what happens if one friend needs help to destroy an artificial intelligence he's created that's taking over Earth
    Body Snatches clause (The Cooper-Nowitzki Theorem) - Specifies what happens if one friend needs help to destroy someone they know who's been replaced with an alien pod
    Godzilla clause (The Cooper-Nowitzki Theorem) - What happens if someone threatens to destroy Tokyo
    Over-night guests notification clause (The Irish Pub Formulation) - There has to be a 24-hour notice if a non-related female is staying over night
    Article One, Section Three - Sheldon calls an emergency meeting in The Vartabedian Conundrum
    Section 7, Subsection B (The Agreement Dissection) - Number 9 "The right to bathroom privacy is suspended in the event of force majeure." Also, the shower can have at most one occupant, except in the event of an attack by water-soluble aliens.
    Section 8, "Visitors", Subsection C, "females", paragraph 4, "coitus" The Staircase Implementation - Roommates shall give each other 12 hours notice of impending coitus.
    Section "Television & Movies" (The Staircase Implementation) - Roommates agree that Friday nights shall be reserved for watching Joss Whedon's brilliant new series Firefly.
    Section 9, "Miscellany" (The Staircase Implementation) - The apartment's flag is a gold lion rampant on a field of azure and should never fly upside down, unless the apartment is in distress. Also, if one of the roommates ever masters time travel, he should has to appear in the apartment exactly five seconds after the clause was signed.
    Section 37B, Miscellaneous Duties (The Friendship Contraction): Leonard is obligated to drive Sheldon to his various appointments, such as the dentist. He must also provide a "confirmation sniff" for questionable dairy products.
    Section 74, C (The Cruciferous Vegetable Amplification) - The obligations and duties of the parties in the event one of them becomes a robot.
    Addendum J (The Agreement Dissection) - "When Sheldon showers second, any and all measures shall be taken to ensure an adequate supply of hot water.
    Clause 209 (The Friendship Contraction) - Gives either party the option of suspending their friendship and stripping the roommate agreement down to its bare essentials. Their responsibilities to each other would only be rent, utilities and a perfunctory chin jut of recognition as they pass in the hall.
    "Leonard's Day Addendum" (The Friendship Contraction) - "In the spirit of Mother’s Day or Father’s Day, once a year, we set aside day to celebrate all your contributions to my life, both actual and imagined by you. We could call it Leonard’s Day."
    Section 27, Paragraph 5 (The Spoiler Alert Segmentation) - The roommate agreement, like the American flag, cannot touch the ground.
    A requirement of the agreement is to have quarterly Roommate Agreement meetings (The Viewing Party Combustion). At the meetings, the Pledge of Allegiance is performed. Issues raised at the meetings include which kind of cereal to buy.
    Article 23, Subsection C - Sheldon asked Leonard to mark a check on the agreement to reserve his spot at the ten year roommate reunion. Leonard was also told to mark whether he wanted the chicken or the fish to eat at the reunion.

